FitnessApp Minimum Viable Product (MVP)


Introduction:

As the name should imply, the proposed app is intended to log workout progress.

Most "workout apps" that I've seen are either over-complicated or simply don't accomplish what I outline here.
I do understand that many people who are new to fitness may need extra assistance to guide them along.
However, I'm drafting this with a specific problem in mind which assumes an existing "fitness plan" of its user.

Therefore, at the time of writing this, I'm mostly designing this app for personal use.
Depending on how things go, I may decide to scale it up in the future.


The Problem:

I like to work out, and I especially enjoy the feeling of progression that comes with it.
For a while now, I've been doing full-body gym workouts and long-distance running sessions.
Recently, I started to log my progress in a journal i.e., weight & reps. for exercises, dist. & time for running.
This got annoying fast since I was writing mostly the same block of text everyday but only changing the numbers ...


Background:

I've had my best results when I draft a "program" over a period of time where I follow a "split" of workouts.
My "program" will always include days devoted to long-distance running where I try to run as far and fast as possible.
The "split" really describes my gym workouts which are individually different but collectively the same eack week.

I also use a nutrition logger (Cronometer) almost every day, I've also used others i.e., MyFitnessPal and LoseIt.
These apps are rather nice, because you can find almost any food and get a good estimate of its calories, macros, etc.
With Cronometer, for example, I'm able to create custom meals that I can easily log each day.
This is convenient since I would otherwise have to individually log each food item every day.
What's more is the fact that I generally eat the same meals every day but "rotate" them so I don't get bored.


Core Goals:

Hopefully by now the main goal of the proposed app is evident ...
I want to build an app where we can save and log progression for workout "programs" and assoc. "splits" over time.
We are not trying to add our own nutritional logger on top at this time since others already do this well.
However, we are modelling our app somewhat after these nutritional loggers.
i.e., a workout is a "recipe" in that it has the same "ingredients" each time but with different "serving" sizes.

Our app should allow its user to draft a "program" and declare it over an extended period of time.
The user may cancel a "program" at any time, but should be able to consult older "programs" whenever (unless deleted).
On "program" creation, a user should be able to define its "split" i.e., the workouts to be done for each week.
Each workout should be constructed with a list of user-defined exercises and goals for sets and rep. ranges.

The whole point of our app is to actually log each workout, so the user should be able to:
    * Record the actual number of sets and reps. completed for each workout.
    * Record the weight in lbs. or kgs. used for each set of a particular exercise.
    * Replace or delete an exercise for a particular workout.
    * If it's a cardio session, log the type (running, biking, etc.) with dist. traveled, and/or time done.

The user shouldn't have to "lock in" to a particular "program" but instead log workouts as completed instead.
This allows for more flexibility but is annoying in that everything would need to be entered manually each time.
This is also the exact problem I had journaling each workout by hand which inspired this app in the first place.
We could save recent exercises (and even workouts) into a cache, for example, so that this process is a bit faster.


Reach Goals:

I will likely create a new document for this if I do, in fact, decide to expand on this app later.
For now, here is a wish list of things that could make this a modern industry-grade app:
    * Incorporate analytics, milestones, benchmarks, etc. based on user performance over time.
    * Fetch data from APIs e.g., get & save a publicly available workout program;
      for example, the current program I follow is from Bodybuilding.com, could our app access that if it wanted?
    * Add ML/AI: make recommendations, construct a program or routine for a user based on goals and/or limitations.
